The first book that I decided to review is The Pragmatic Programmer(From Journeyman to Master) by Andrew Hunt,David Thomas.

Before starting the book, I was expecting to learn those critical things which usually prinicipal software engineers know after years 
of experience.My aim was to learn techniques that could directly improve my productivity in completing projects and also help make my 
code better than my peers.

Following are the things that I have taken away from this book:

1.) The Cat Ate My Source Code
     In the first part, the author teaches us many important take-aways.Some of them are taking the responsibility of the code you build,
     taking the responsibility of the project you are a part of and always be cognizant of the changes happening around you with respect 
     to the technology and your organization as well.
     The author introduces a novel concept of Knowledge Portfolio which I liked a lot. He also stressed on topics such as Communication 
     which I feel are important for technical professionals to suceed.
     
2.)  Estimation and Orthogonality
     Another part of the book which I could take-away a lot from. The author in this part talks about important concepts such as 
     Orthogonality and Decoupling which unfortunately are not a part of modern software engineering syllabus. The author stresses how 
     application of both these concepts or lack of it could literally make or break projects. He uses an amusing example of a helicopter 
     to explain it. Also this part of book rounds up with 'Estimation' which I feel is critical to every project. 
     Although I felt estimation prose to be on the theoretical side.
     
 3.) The Basic Tools
     This part of the book emphasizes on the tools which a software programmer uses in his day-to-day life. Although I was not able to 
     take away much from it , working primarily on 1 platform at this moment, it does have some useful knowledge. The author talks about 
     how things such as the correct editor or a debugging technique could help you a lot in your software engineering career.
     
 4.) Pragmatic Paranoia
     Again a part of book which provided me with many important tidbits.I really liked the concept of 'Design By Contract' which clearly 
     validates the functionality expected from a programming module.

